README.md, before:

<img src="images/virus.png" alt="virus" height="100" width="110"/> 

## Welcome to IDDS

This repository aims at becoming a workbench for researches to play with a simple but realistic model of infectious-disease spreading.

### Introduction

The year 2020 became an incredibly complicated and unpredictable journey in which people of all nationalities have been affected by a horrendous disease spreading problem (referred to as **CoVid19**). This world-wide problem came to us almost inadvertently because of the similitude of the symptoms associated with a common flu. However, this *coronavirus* (**SARS-CoV-2**) turned out being a much uncontrollable and pernicious than already-known coronaviruses, e.g., MERS and SARS. Unfortunately, humanity had to learn such a dramatic reality via the hard way. To date (October 2020), more than one million (1.07M) people have died due to the seemingly relentless virus, and more than thirty-nine million (36.9M) people have been infected worldwide. These tremendous and growing figures have been the main driver for an unprecedented spike of research in a single topic. The entire scientific community is in a unified effort on trying to *forecast* the spreading of this deadly virus, with the aim of shedding light onto the social measures we humans need to take in order to control the spreading whilst searching for a treatment, or (even better) a *vaccine*.

In this unified effort against the virus, the researching community is relying upon computational modelling for than ever before. The current scenario requires the possibility of testing *in-silico* the potential effects of different social behaviours and restrictions which cannot be carried out in live, for obvious reasons. Many models have come to light over the past few months, most of them based on deterministic equations which aim to describe the susceptible-infectious-recoverd (SIR) *flow*, which should be an average representation of what is happening out there. Such models focus then on the fitting of several free parameters of the SIR equations to try and understand the number of infections and the death toll. However, the simplicity of SIR models cannot incorporate in a natural way the complexity of a society as greatly evolved as ours. For this reason, we believe the most natural way of studying this problem should be by focusing on the individual, then suggesting an agent-based model. The SIR equations can then be seen as the simplified fluid equations compared to Molecular Dynamics. Obviously, there are model equations which are much more computationally efficient than integrating all the constituent particles' positions and velocities in time, but one cannot expect these simple equations to predict complex behaviours which are out of the underlying assumptions, e.g. this is the case of phase transitions and the Navier-Stokes equations.

The idea of this work and repository is to provide the scientific community with a free and open-source computational model which is capable of reproducing SIR-like curves when the input configuration is set to its simplest version, and many more complex behaviours (e.g. resonant and intermittent infectious modes) when social measures are taken into consideration. This is a toy model, but can become as complex as you want it to be, as it is open for your use and improvement. 

## Requirements

[TBC]

## Contributing

We encourage all the scientists and researchers to contribute to this repository to make it better and more complete and realistic. However, we encourage to read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) if you feel like contributing to this project. There you will find the basic details on how to proceed in a way which follows our standards of work and communication.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) file for details

Commit message:

doc: add the basic requirements on README.md

README.md, after:

<img src="images/virus.png" alt="virus" height="100" width="110"/> 

## Welcome to IDDS

This repository aims at becoming a workbench for researches to play with a simple but realistic model of infectious-disease spreading.

### Introduction

The year 2020 became an incredibly complicated and unpredictable journey in which people of all nationalities have been affected by a horrendous disease spreading problem (referred to as **CoVid19**). This world-wide problem came to us almost inadvertently because of the similitude of the symptoms associated with a common flu. However, this *coronavirus* (**SARS-CoV-2**) turned out being a much uncontrollable and pernicious than already-known coronaviruses, e.g., MERS and SARS. Unfortunately, humanity had to learn such a dramatic reality via the hard way. To date (October 2020), more than one million (1.07M) people have died due to the seemingly relentless virus, and more than thirty-nine million (36.9M) people have been infected worldwide. These tremendous and growing figures have been the main driver for an unprecedented spike of research in a single topic. The entire scientific community is in a unified effort on trying to *forecast* the spreading of this deadly virus, with the aim of shedding light onto the social measures we humans need to take in order to control the spreading whilst searching for a treatment, or (even better) a *vaccine*.

In this unified effort against the virus, the researching community is relying upon computational modelling for than ever before. The current scenario requires the possibility of testing *in-silico* the potential effects of different social behaviours and restrictions which cannot be carried out in live, for obvious reasons. Many models have come to light over the past few months, most of them based on deterministic equations which aim to describe the susceptible-infectious-recoverd (SIR) *flow*, which should be an average representation of what is happening out there. Such models focus then on the fitting of several free parameters of the SIR equations to try and understand the number of infections and the death toll. However, the simplicity of SIR models cannot incorporate in a natural way the complexity of a society as greatly evolved as ours. For this reason, we believe the most natural way of studying this problem should be by focusing on the individual, then suggesting an agent-based model. The SIR equations can then be seen as the simplified fluid equations compared to Molecular Dynamics. Obviously, there are model equations which are much more computationally efficient than integrating all the constituent particles' positions and velocities in time, but one cannot expect these simple equations to predict complex behaviours which are out of the underlying assumptions, e.g. this is the case of phase transitions and the Navier-Stokes equations.

The idea of this work and repository is to provide the scientific community with a free and open-source computational model which is capable of reproducing SIR-like curves when the input configuration is set to its simplest version, and many more complex behaviours (e.g. resonant and intermittent infectious modes) when social measures are taken into consideration. This is a toy model, but can become as complex as you want it to be, as it is open for your use and improvement. 

## Requirements

The code is written in `Python 3.7`, thus we would expect any python environment ( `Python>=3.7`) to be capable of running the code without any issue. If this is not the case, we encourage and will thank you for telling us about any issue (as described in the contributing section). Besides having the correct **python** version, you'll need to install the packages specified in the [requirements](requirements.txt) file. 

## Contributing

We encourage all the scientists and researchers to contribute to this repository to make it better and more complete and realistic. However, we encourage to read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) if you feel like contributing to this project. There you will find the basic details on how to proceed in a way which follows our standards of work and communication.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) file for details
